All right what I want to do now in this video is just to look at the emotion of charged particles between
these parallel plates in order to do a lot of these problems you have to go back to kinetics.
OK.
In order to analyze the motion again I choose this example here.
Parallel plates versus the field produced by a point charge.
Because in this case the the electric field is uniform which means it's constant.
OK.
Let you write that down again.
It's the same any position that you're looking at between these plates.
And we just said earlier on that the acceleration has to be the charge that I'm going to place between
those plates the electric field divided by the mass I super important equation over here.
All right.
So if the acceleration is constant this means I can use some simple Keenum addicts to look at the to
describe the motion of a charged particle between these plates.
Let me show you an example.
What happens if I place a small positive charge over here and it starts to accelerate.
OK I may have a certain distance here between these plates.
I don't know maybe we're going to call this distance d the spacing between the plates.
What if I release it from rest.
OK.
I would have an initial speed what if I wanted to know how long does it take before it gets to the other
side.
What if I wanted to know what is the speed of this little charge when it gets to the other side.
And imagine this here has a charge Q All right.
Another situation I could have is what if I take a negative charge and I give it some initial velocity
v zero and I throw it up between the plates what happens to that charge.
Right can I describe the motion of this charged particle this negative charge.
Q Well as it enters the field it wants to go toward the positive plate.
It wants to go away from the negative plate.
In this case here if you do a free body diagram on this negative charge again I'll draw the forces here
in purple.
Let me draw the force the force acting on this guy here has to be in this direction and the force is
constant.
It also means that the acceleration is constant it's also given behind by equation up here.
So we can do some kinetics now but you have to remember some of the equations for kinetics the kinetic
equations are used only in the case where the acceleration is constant.
If you remember back in kind of the first physics class you took.
If this was Earth we had another case where the acceleration was constant.
All right.
If I drop an apple over here we know that the acceleration of the apple we wrote that as little g and
this was nine point eight meters per second squared.
That was the acceleration and the earth is kind of like a big plate.
Okay if you're close to the plate the acceleration is constant kind of the same thing is this parallel
plate.
So if the acceleration was constant there were a whole set of equations that you can use to analyze
the motion.
Let me write them down.
I call them the big five equations.
Again they're just kind of good to remember if you don't remember we'll write them down.
So we have four and five for the green charge over here.
In this case it's in two dimensions so you'll really have to look at them in the x and the y direction
separately.
I'm just gonna write down the general equations see if you remember this one here said that the displacement
in a direction is equal to one half the initial velocity plus the velocity times time.
This one over here is the final velocity V.F. is equal to the initial velocity plus the acceleration
times time.
This one over here is also used quite a bit.
The displacement equals to the initial velocity times time plus one half.
80 squared is another one here which is kind of similar except it uses the final velocity.
This one's probably not as popular but it had just has a different sign but it also has the different
velocity right here and another one that's used quite a bit is this one the final velocity squared equals
to the initial velocity squared plus two times the acceleration multiplied by the displacement for this
green one over here.
Again if there's only acceleration in one direction again you'd have to consider that right.
We'll have to write them in the x and the y direction separately in order to analyze the motion.
This guy over here looks very very similar to projectile motion right for projectile motion if you remember
what you have is you have something like this and what I do is either kick a ball at a certain angle
and that ball ends up doing a projectile motion and I can calculate how far it goes I can calculate
the maximum height and so forth.
In this case here what the projectile is going to do or the charge is in this case it's just going to
get deflected.
There's a force acting on it.
So the motion is going to get deflected.
So it would usually kind of pop out on the other side of the plates with some displacement over here
in this direction.
Again depending on the size of the electric field or the size of this charge it might not even make
it across the plates right.
It might just kind of boom hit the plate right here.
It might just hit the plate right here.
If there is a large force acting on it.
Okay but going forward you might have to use some of these Cannon Matic equations in order to analyze
the motion of charges and we're able to use these here only because we have a constant acceleration.
So instead of using nine point eight over here for the acceleration instead of doing that well we're
going to do is we're going to use our value that we're going to calculate inside these equations.
This is going to be the acceleration.
So we're gonna get a number if you know the charge the field and the mass of the particle that's entering
this field and then you plug that number in.
It's a constant number just put it in there.